Let's get into some load testing here.
What I'm going to do is take a look at this project called docker-flask-locust.
It's in my GitHub repository noahgift.
I'm going to go ahead and open up Cloud9 again.
This is my favorite environment here.
I've already got one open, it's called dockerbuild.
I've already checked out this repo,
and you can see where you're at.
If you go to git remote-v,
this will give you the access to the git repo that you're in.
What I'm going to do is, I'm going to make
a very simple load test application that could be later used for a larger system,
but the logistics here are really
going to be similar no matter what your microservice is.
First, I'll build a Hello, World flask application.
So just a few lines of code.
I import the Flask module,
I go through here and I create one route.
All it does is run Hello, World.
Let me show you how it runs.
If I type in Python app.py,
you can see it's going to run a foreground mode and it's also going to run on port 8080.
Now, one of the things that's interesting about the Cloud9 environment is that you
do need to expose any port you want to interact with via the security groups.
So I'm going to go over to this EC2 instance here,
and I'm going to look at the security groups.
I'm going to find this dockerbuild instance I've got running,
which is right here.
I'm going to ensure that the ports that I need to interact with are open.
So I've already done that,
but let me show how you would do that.
You click on "Edit," and you can see that I've exposed port 9090 to everybody,
I've exposed port 8089,
and I've also exposed port 8080.
These are all some ports that I'm going to use
in different capacities while I'm developing my Flask app.
It means that I can later then connect to that instance,
and how would I connect?
Well, then go to the Instances tab here.
You can see that this instance is running,
that's that aws-cloud9 instance.
If I select it,
you can see that, in fact,
I can just copy this to clipboard.
This is the public DNS address and I can create a new tab,
and I can go over here and type in colon 8080.
This should give me access to that Flask app.
There we go, Hello World.
If I go back to my console, look,
I can see that a web request went in and if I go back here again and refresh it,
you can see that another request has gone in.
So pretty powerful workflow inside of Cloud9,
and immediately we can really get to work and start testing things out.
Well, the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to go over to locust file here.
I'm going to create a file called locust file.
I've already created this previously,
and I say from locust import HttpLocust, TaskSet, between.
All I'm going to do here is,
I'm going to create a function that is going to retrieve the main route here,
which is just this Hello, World route.
I'm going to create a user behavior,
and really this is just boilerplate code.
Then I'm going to put it inside of this class WebsiteUser,
and I'm going to inherit from HttpLocust.
You don't really need to know about how to create these,
it is just boilerplate code.
If you want to make more of them,
you could potentially copy this code and make another route,
and then put it inside of here as a task.
But in our case, what this is going to do,
it's going to allow us to run this command called locust.
I've installed that via this requirements file here.
So I have flask, pylint, locust.
I've already covered that in previous videos
about how you can create a virtual environment,
and then inside a virtual environment and do an install.
So how do I run this,
and test this out, and get this running locally here?
Well, what I can do, is that I can kill this right here,
kill this process, and start this app again.
So we'll go Python app.
Then what I can do,
in another window here,
I can just type in the word locust.
What this does is,
it actually looks for a file called locust file and it starts to run it on port 8089.
That's why I opened up that other port.
If we go to that port,
you can see here that here's port 8089,
if I refresh that.
It ask me, when I first log in,
how many users do I want to simulate?
So this is a really powerful tool here.
I can say, I want to do,
let's say 10 users and I want to launch another user every second. There we go.
The host, well, what's the host going to be?
It's going to be the same host that I'm on.
But it's going to be the port 8080.
So I'm going to paste that in there and just take this out and say port 8080,
because that's the port that Flask is running on right here in this terminal.
Let's go ahead and do that. We'll start swarming,
and immediately you can see here that it starts to show
the statistics of all the different requests.
If I look at charts,
it'll actually start building these charts out in real time here.
So really powerful tool to use,
locust to test a microservice.
You could then containerize your app and test in a container.
You can then put it into Kubernetes,
and then have Kubernetes automatically do spawning.
So this is a very powerful technique that is
really straight forward to do. Go ahead and get started.